= NamespaceHelper

* Github: https://github.com/aef/namespace_helper
* RDoc: http://rdoc.info/projects/aef/namespace_helper/

== DESCRIPTION:

NamespaceHelper provides a module with methods to ease namespace handling.
For example getting the unprefixed name, the namespace parent or a list of
namespace components of a class or module.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

Tested and fully working on:
* Ubuntu Linux 9.10 (Karmic Koala) on x86_64
  * Ruby 1.8.7
  * Ruby 1.9.2
  * Ruby Enterprise Edition 2010.02
  * JRuby 1.5.5
  * Rubinius 1.1.1
* Microsoft Windows XP SP2 on x86
  * Ruby 1.8.7
  * Ruby 1.9.2
  * JRuby 1.5.5
* Debian GNU/Linux 4.0 (Lenny) on x86
  * Ruby 1.8.7
  * Ruby 1.9.2
  * JRuby 1.5.3

This projects tries to conform to:
* SemVer (and SemVerTag), http://semver.org/
* Ruby Packaging Standard, http://chneukirchen.github.com/rps/
* Gem Packaging: Best Practices, http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/2009/9/1/gem-packaging-best-practices

Additional facts:
* Written purely in Ruby
* Does not modify any exisiting classes or modules by default
* Should be able to work independant of Rubygems

== SYNOPSIS:

The first way to load the library won't touch any existing classes but you need
to extend every class or module which should support the helper methods manually:

  require 'aef/namespace_helper'
  
  module First
    class Second
    end
  end

  File::Constants.extend(Aef::NamespaceHelper::ClassMethods)
  
  File::Constants.unprefixed_name # => "Constants"
  File::Constants.namespace_parent # => File
  File::Constants.namespace_parent_name # => "File"
  
The other way to load the library will enable the helper methods in every module
and class:

  require 'aef/namespace_helper/core_extension'
  
  Process::Status.namespace_components # => [Process, Process::Status]
  Process::Status.namespace_component_names # => ["Process", "Process::Status"]
  Process::Status.unprefixed_namespace_component_names # => ["Process", "Status"]

== REQUIREMENTS:

* none

== INSTALL:

On *nix systems you may need to prefix the command with sudo to get root
privileges.

=== High security (recommended)

There is a high security installation option available through Rubygems. It is
highly recommended over the normal installation, although it may be a bit less
comfortable. To use the installation method, you will need my public key, which
I use for cryptographic signatures on all my gems. You can find the public key
and more detailed verification information in the aef-certificates section of my
rubyforge project[https://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=7890&release_id=31749]

Add the key to your rubygems' trusted certificates by the following command:

  gem cert --add aef.pem

Now you can install the gem while automatically verifying it's signature by the
following command:

  gem install namespace_helper --ignore-dependencies -P HighSecurity

Please notice that you may need other keys for dependent libraries, so you may
have to install dependencies manually.  

=== Normal (insecure)

  gem install namespace_helper

=== Automated testing

You can test this package through rspec on your system. First find the path
where the gem was installed to:

  gem which aef/linebreak

Go into the root directory of the installed gem and run the following command
to start the test runner:

  rake spec

If something goes wrong you should be noticed through failing examples.

== DEVELOPMENT:

This software is developed in the source code management system git hosted
at github.com. You can download the most recent sourcecode through the following
command:

  git clone git://github.com/aef/namespace_helper.git

Help on making this software better is always very appreciated. If you want your
changes to be included in the official release, please send me a patch through
the project's tracker[https://rubyforge.org/tracker/?group_id=7890] at
rubyforge.org. You can generate a patch-file by the following command:

  git diff > patch.diff

Please make sure to write tests for your changes and notice that I can't promise
to include your changes before reviewing them.

== LICENSE:

Copyright 2009 Alexander E. Fischer <aef@raxys.net>

This file is part of NamespaceHelper.

NamespaceHelper is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
